---
cover: false
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.25"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/dev-seed-background.jpg
  og_image: /assets/images/bc-card.jpg
title: "FROST Round Table II: Overview"
hide_description: true
classes:
  - wide
permalink: /frost/meeting2/
sidebar:
  nav: frost
---

The second FROST Implementer's Round Table is a meeting for FROST implementers (including cryptographers, standards writers, and library implementers) to discuss the status of their FROST work with fellows.

* WHEN? Wednesday September 18, 2024
* WHAT TIME? 10am PDT (1pm EDT, 7pm CEST)
* HOW LONG? 90 minutes
* WHERE? Zoom: [https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84196792336?pwd=y1IWKhEYbbRTpht7G72Va16pbT6eZb.1](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84196792336?pwd=y1IWKhEYbbRTpht7G72Va16pbT6eZb.1)

We look forward to seeing you on September 18th!

[Download a meeting reminder](https://developer.blockchaincommons.com/assets/ics/frost-meeting-202409.ics).

[Join our announcements-only FROST Implementers list](https://www.blockchaincommons.com/subscribe/#frost-implementers).

Here's our agenda so far ...

## Feature Presentations

* secp-zkp FROST (Jesse Posner)
* ChillDKG (Jonas Nick)

We would love to have a five-minute presentation from you on your work-to-date on FROST libraries or standards. Please [contact us](mailto:team@blockchaincommons.com) so we can add you to the agenda.

## Round Table Topics

* Standards
   * IETF, BIPs, NIST
* Key Formats
   * DKG & BIP-32, x-only keys, single-key uses
* VSS Compatibility
   * FROST, Trusted Dealer, MuSig
* VSS Objects
   * Required Metadata

Again, [let us know](mailto:team@blockchaincommons.com) about topics you'd like to see covered, particularly if you've hit any particular roadblocks or found any particular great solutions. We can add topics at the meeting, but we'd prefer to have as much as possible on the agenda, so that we can support everyone's time constraints. 
